Performance optimization:-

i. Performance optimization, also known as performance tuning.
ii. It involves making changes to the current state of the semantic model so that it runs more efficiently.
 iii. Essentially, when your semantic model is optimized, it performs better.

You might find that your report runs well in test and development environments, but when deployed to production for broader consumption, performance issues arise. From a report user's perspective, poor performance is characterized by report pages that take longer to load and visuals taking more time to update. This poor performance results in a negative user experience.


Note:-
>> As a data analyst, you will spend approximately 90 percent of your time working with your data, and nine times out of ten, poor performance is a direct result of a bad semantic model, bad Data Analysis Expressions (DAX), or the mix of the two. 

>> The process of designing a semantic model for performance can be tedious, and it is often underestimated. However, if you address performance issues during development, you will have a robust Power BI semantic model that will return better reporting performance and a more positive user experience. 

 >> Ultimately, you will also be able to maintain optimized performance.

>> As your organization grows, the size of its data grows, and its semantic model becomes more complex.

>>  By optimizing your semantic model early, you can mitigate the negative impact that this growth might have on the performance of your semantic model.

>> A smaller sized semantic model uses less resources (memory) and achieves faster data refresh, calculations, and rendering of visuals in reports. 

Therefore, the performance optimization process involves minimizing the size of the semantic model and making the most efficient use of the data in the model, which includes:

1. Ensuring that the correct data types are used.

2. Deleting unnecessary columns and rows.

3. Avoiding repeated values.

4. Replacing numeric columns with measures.

5. Reducing cardinalities.

6. Analyzing model metadata.

7. Summarizing data where possible.


To identify the root cause of the perfomance issues and make changes to optimize performance.

1. Review the performance measures , relationships and visuals.

2.  Usage of variables to improve performance and trobuleshooting.

3. Improve performance by reducing cardinality levels.

4. Optimize DirectQuery models with the table level storage

5. Crated and Manage aggregations.












